how you can craft B2B sales proposals
that actually convert to revenue with
evidence that's backed by data from
analyzing 1 million sales proposals. I'm
joined by Kyle Raki, co-founder and CEO
over at Proposify. We're going to be
digging deep into are sales proposals
still as important as they once were?
Should marketing be involved in the
sales process? some of the biggest
bottlenecks, mistakes, and blunders when
it comes to proposals and exactly how
you can craft a killer proposal that
converts consistently. Absolute recipe
with a step by step so you can start
putting it into play today. Let's dive
in.
Kyle, welcome to the show, sir. Give us
a quick introduction to yourself before
we dive in.
>> Hey, Sam, thanks for having me. Glad to
be on finally the the breaking B2B
podcast. My name is Kyle Rocky. I'm the
co-founder and CEO of Proposify. We are
a SAS company that uh makes proposal
software. We help sales teams and
marketing teams send out winning
proposals faster, close more deals, and
uh yeah, we've been at it now. This is
our 11th year in business, although I
started much much earlier than that.
>> Much older and wiser when it comes to
business and myself, and I'm I'm looking
forward to you sharing that expertise
with our audience myself. So, we're
going to be diving into how B2B teams
can craft sales proposals that actually
close. And we're not talking fluff.
We're actually using evidence. We're
using real data that your team has
harnessed, which I'm looking forward to
digging into. We're going to be covering
things like a sales proposal is really
important in 2025, 2026, and well
beyond. Should marketing be involved in
the process? Some of the biggest
mistakes that you see when it comes to
sales proposals and just just not
converting deals and a bit of a step by
step of how marketers, founders, sellers
tuning in can run a playby-play flow to
get more revenue, get more deals done
when it comes to their proposals. So,
first and foremost, Carl, are sales
proposals really as important as they
once were?
>> I believe they are. And uh obviously I'm
biased, but I'll share a uh an a story
of something that happened just a few
years ago that I think really highlights
this the importance of a sales proposal.
So I was looking for I remember coming
to my team. I had this problem where we
were I always had to respond to
chargebacks because we have thousands of
transactions. Obviously some of them
you're going to get dis credit card
disputes and I had to manually submit
evidence to Stripe in order to combat
that. I didn't even know what I was
searching for. like I didn't know what
what do you call that, but I just wanted
a solution. And I talked to my team. I'm
like, can I give this to somebody?
Nobody wanted it. I couldn't figure out
who could just take this this really
boring, mundane task off my plate. And
then lo and behold, I get a cold email
from a sales rep who says, we
automatically respond to to Stripe
disputes on your behalf. And I was like,
amazing. Let's hop on a call. So, how
often do you send, you know, a cold
pitch to somebody and they're like, oh
my god, this is the thing I've been
looking for.
>> Super rat. hop on a call with the sales
rep. He walks me through the solution.
I'm like, "This is amazing. Like, this
is magic. Can I pay you right now? Show
me where to pay. I want I want to pay
you to do this for me." And he goes,
"Okay, well, after we get off this call,
I'll send you a document to look at and
then we'll go from there." I'm like,
"Cool." 3 days go by, I don't see a
document. I I actually have to ping him
and go, "Where? You said you were
sending me a proposal. Where is that?"
And he goes, "Oh, we do that with our op
our ops department. and our finance
department sends the proposal. So, I'll
check with Mary. You should see a docu
sign from Mary in your inbox shortly.
Another two days goes goes by. Now, he's
reaching out to me. Have you seen that
docu sign from Mary? I go, no. And then
I finally look in my spam and I find it
and then I open it and it's this like
huge docu sign with like 12 pages of
legal ease and all these little check
boxes that I have to sign off on and I'm
like and I just close it down and now
the rep's chasing after me. Have you had
a chance to look? And I'm like, "Yeah, I
it I don't understand it. It's too much.
It it makes no sense." He could have
closed that deal in two seconds. And I'm
just going to say, shameless plug, had
he used Proposify because if he had have
illustrated the, you know, reinforce the
pain that he heard, showed the solution,
made it easy to sign off, made the
pricing clear, I I would have been a
buyer from that from that, you know,
second on. So what we often find with
with people who come to Proposify and
and we see a lot of proposals and we see
a lot of proposal processes almost all
of them look like something like that
where people are just emailing word docs
and PDFs and it's actually in a lot of
cases hurting them more than it's
helping them but at the end of the day a
buyer still needs to see something in
order to really share it around with
their team understand what they're
buying and sign off on it. And that's
really what a proposal does. And I think
it will still be relevant in 10, 20, 100
years.
>> That's a big claim, 100 years, but who
knows?
>> Well, I think proposals are the oldest,
you know, one of the a contract, I
should say, is like the oldest form of a
handshake, right? We don't just do hand
Well, I guess a handshake is the oldest
form of a handshake, but you know what
I'm saying. If you're going to do
business with somebody, there needs to
be an agreement that you sign off on.
And so, I don't think that that's ever
really going to go away. some
interesting points and I wonder how much
that still happens right now. Like I
can't see it so much in the scrappier
startup space where I guess it's more
founderled sales and and you want to get
deals done and things move a lot faster,
but I can certainly see it happening
more in mid-market and enterprise. I
don't know how much this still happens
today, but I'm sure it does a bit right
where a sales rep maybe isn't actually
allowed to send proposals or quotes or
agreements without certain signoffs and
maybe someone else is responsible for
that. So, I imagine a fair bit of that
still happens today, right? Where the
rep just isn't actually allowed to send
certain things and they have to wait for
someone else like a tier of management
to actually send something off.
>> Yeah. And and I do believe that AI is
going to change that soon and I want us
to be one of the the front runners of
that. But I do think that the days of
having to get people to manually look at
things to make sure that there's no
mistakes or discount errors or those
kind of things, I think that process can
be very heavily automated through AI.
Um, so it's not creating any bottlenecks
because the most important thing with a
proposal as my story illustrated was
that speed is important and if you wait
too long to send a proposal to somebody,
they can very quickly go cold.
>> Yeah. Yes. So I think that te's up the
conversation quite nicely to lead into
speed. You've you've said is one of the
most important factors and it sounded
like you were touching on clarity which
perhaps we can dive into as well and
you've touched a bit on kind of
identifying pain and need and all those
good parts and components of a sales
process and that that weave nicely into
B2B marketing. But what are some of the
kind of big mistakes that you're seeing
otherwise that B2B companies are making
when it comes to their sales proposals?
Yeah. Well, I I think that there's
there's a few we could go through. One
of the biggest mistakes that I often see
when people send us what they're
currently sending their prospects is
that real quick, if you want to start
fueling your sales team with a steady
stream of leads, demos, or booked calls
from SEO and organic search across AI
and Google. Why not grab a call with
myself over at breaking.com?
we can chat through exactly how SEO
could potentially help your business
drive a steady stream of inbound through
organic search. Head over to breaking
B2b.com or hit the link in description
below. Right, back to the video. One of
the biggest mistakes that I often see
when people send us what they're
currently sending their prospects is
that kind of similar to the story the
docyign story is that it's really just a
word document kind of a contract and it
doesn't really tell a story. It doesn't
use visuals. Like people act like it
doesn't matter. But why does Apple put
so much care into every aspect of their
product, their marketing, the packaging,
the stuff that you don't even really
look at? Like everything is welldesigned
because they know that it reinforces
their brand of being the the brand for
sophistication, for elegance, for good
design. So if their packaging was crap,
we it would make us think differently
about their brand. And I think for most
companies that sell in B2B, that sell
mid-market, that that need a proposal in
order to close a deal, what kind of
message are you sending to your
prospects? If you're the proposal you
send them after putting all this work
into your marketing and your sales
collateral and lead magnets and all that
kind of stuff, if they finally get a
proposal in their inbox and it just
looks like something like a high school
student hacked together in Word, does it
really make you want to close the deal?
And so we we often find that putting
effort into the design and the visual
presentation is not just surface level.
It really can impact whether or not you
close the deal. Got it. Yeah, makes
sense. It's almost like when a prospect
perhaps finds you on LinkedIn or finds
you through an ad or sees your content
elsewhere or maybe receives a cold email
or a cold call from your team or then
checks out your website and it's like
the messaging is completely off. like
they don't actually understand kind of
exactly what you do, how your solution
helps them, how you're different to
maybe the hundred other competitors in
the market and they can't easily access
kind of examples of work or see your
product in play or check your pricing or
like a 100 field form to to book a call.
So, it's it it kind of reminds me of
that website scenario when you've put
all this work up front to build brand
awareness, get get the demand and when
someone actually visits it, it's kind of
repelling them because the clarity is
not there and the custom research hasn't
been done or the effort not into the
design and the rest of it.
>> Yeah. It's like following through all
the way through the buying cycle. It's
like we put so much effort at the
beginning of it, but things can very
quickly fall apart at the end. It's like
even just when you have a bad sales
experience with a rep who doesn't listen
and doesn't get you what you need. It's
like, well, I was so interested before
and now I'm not. And it's like, why
aren't we investing as much into the
bottom of the funnel as we are at the
top?
>> Yeah, makes sense. Are there any other
mistakes that you often see with kind of
prospects that that come in in and work
with you folks?
>> Yeah, I mean, a lot of it is really
industry context dependent, but I mean,
we often see proposals that are too long
that are in the sort of 20 50page
territory that just have too much
information. when we looked at our state
of proposals data. So every year we look
at what our customers are sending out
and we analyze it. Last year there was
about a million proposals sent through
the platform that was about 2.5 billion
in revenue. And what we did is we
analyze it as we do every year and
posted on our state of proposals free
guide that people can check out. And the
average length of a proposal is only
about seven or eight sections or pages.
That is about the sweet spot for what's
going to help you close a deal. So what
we kind of find is across industries,
they all use or should use a pretty
similar format and a pretty similar
structure. So yeah, like just not
putting in too much information, which
also if you put too much information, it
just means they take longer to produce,
which means that they take longer to get
in the hands of your prospect and and
just taking too long is probably one of
the biggest mistakes people make.
Somebody has to wait two weeks for a
proposal, they're probably just going to
your competitors.
>> Yeah. Yeah, fair point. So five to six.
So you folks have analyzed around a
million proposals and five to six pages
tends to be that sweet spot.
>> 7 to eight.
>> 7 to eight. Sorry. Got it.
>> Yeah.
>> So talked about some of the mistakes.
We've talked about the importance. But
should marketers should marketing be
involved in this process? Should it be a
pure sales activity? What's what's your
thoughts there?
>> I think marketing should absolutely be
involved in creating the proposal
template that sales reps use. Obviously,
if you're responding to RFPs or highly
bespoke proposals, then you may need a
whole team involved in every single one.
But I'm not going to that's kind of an
example I'm not really going to use
because the majority of people at least
that we talk to are sending kind of more
proactive proposals, not responding to
tenders and and RFPs. So yeah, I mean
like for example what we do at Proposify
cuz we just revamped our own proposal
template using new version of our
product version 3 and essentially
marketing was involved in creating the
template and putting in all the making
it look great, embedding video, helping
tell the story, refining the copy. But
then from there it's like you don't want
marketing to ever be a bottleneck in the
process. And that's what we see is often
the case in with a lot of customers who
come to us is you know if marketing has
to do every proposal and that means that
like for example in the case where I
gave you the story the sales rep should
have been the one to send the proposal
that wasn't their process. It wasn't his
fault it was a process problem was that
some other department had to produce the
proposals and that slowed down getting
it to me which made me go cold
eventually. And so what you want
marketing to do is help create the
template for sales to to send, but then
you want to empower sales to actually be
able to customize it and send it
themselves. So that could be like here's
the three parts that we want you to
personalize. Obviously the pricing,
maybe the intro letter, but everything
else should be standardized and
automated.
>> Got it. Yeah. It sounds like a lot of
this is kind of putting frameworks in
place and making sure there's a speedy
process.
>> Yeah. Yeah.
>> Nice. And it's like you know like all
things your the software the tools you
use is only as good as your process
right no tool will save a bad process.
So whatever tool you happen to use it's
it's important to set it up in a way
that really enables sales to get
compelling proposals to buyers as
quickly as humanly possible. Good stuff.
So let's break down. I want you to share
the recipe that makes a killer sales
proposal from the top. Maybe even
starting with the thought process. Feel
free to weave in the data you've got
from analyzing 1 million plus sales
proposals almost like a step-by-step
playbyplay. So, what should kind of
teams be thinking about when they're
right at the start of their journey up
to actually kind of pitting send? Yeah,
I mean, you know, I'll actually use for
anybody listening to this, they wouldn't
be able to see it, but at least for
anybody who is able to see this video,
they should be able to hopefully see
what I'm sharing here, which is this is
our our new proposal template that we
created in Proposeify. And as you can
see, you know, for us, we're a SAS
company. For you, it might be a
consulting firm or a marketing firm. But
a lot of the elements are pretty
consistent, which is we've got a cover.
So, obviously showing the name of the
company, who you're selling to, trying
to make that a really visually
compelling cover letter. Think of it
like the hero banner on your website.
That's important. Then you get into an
intro letter, which can be fairly
standardized, but you want it to be a
little bit customizable. This is also
where AI can be really helpful to take
your standard intro letter and take data
from your CRM, from your gong calls,
whatever you happen to be using, and
just personalize it because that's
ultimately what I think the most
heavy-hitting part of the proposal other
than the pricing. We know people go to
pricing first, and that's okay. They go
to pricing and then hopefully read the
rest. But the intro letter is your
chance to tell your prospect, I heard
you. When we spoke, this is what we
spoke about. These are the challenges
that you're having. Here's how we can
help. And you'll probably, you know,
again, industry dependent because I know
for SEO firms like yourself, there's
usually some bit of an audit or a report
you kind of need to put in place to say
like, hey, we crawled your site and here
are the areas of opportunity where we
that we can fix. So depending on what
kind of service you're selling, you may
need to put a little bit more than just
a cover letter in. You might need to put
a bit of an audit, you know, let's say
like a landscaping firm putting in
photos from a site visit or something
like that. But you really want to make
it about the prospect. If you want to
make it about, you know, we heard your
pains and challenges and here's how we
solve it. Sounds pretty obvious in a lot
of ways, but it's not often what you
see. You see kind of like the about us
section. You know, here's here's how
great we are. Here's our our awards.
Here's our badges. Here's our
testimonials. And it's totally fine to
put that stuff in, but don't put it
first. Make that more towards the end to
reinforce and back up that you're the
right the right choice. How important do
you think the So I agree with a lot of
these points and I've made that mistake
in years gone by just used proposals,
quote docks, plans of action, whatever
you want to call them and like you said
made the mistake of just doing the first
couple pages. This is how great we are.
This is all our work. This is our case
studies. These are the awards we've won.
This is why you should choose us. But
from kind of learnings from my own
hands-on mistakes these days, I bit like
your your learnings from analyzing so
many proposals. I try and keep them to
the point as possible and like like you
say dig straight into pain points like
you told me these three points were your
top challenges and this is why you want
to look at it now this is what happens
if you don't this is where we need to
get to in the next x months and so on
and like you said tools like gong or I
think we use fathom they're so good for
just pulling those points cuz you can
have those 30 40m minute discovery calls
or your reps can and then you can just
grab those points right and then put
them into your proposal as long as your
sales reps are actually asking those
questions which I guess is important
before you even get to the prop
proposal. to actually make sure that
your sales team are digging into pain,
quantifying that those levels of pain
and making sure that there is a problem
that they're motivated to get solved and
invest in your solution before you're
getting to that stage, I guess.
>> Absolutely. Again, goes back to process,
right?
>> The process is more important than the
tool that you use.
>> For sure. So, yeah, moving on. Like, so
for us, what we do in our proposals is
this is where we talk about us, right?
So, we say we're the proposal experts.
Here's evidence that we know what we're
talking about. And here we've got some
stats, you know, total dollars won by
companies in Proposify in 2024, etc.,
etc. So, again, totally fine to use this
information, but we recommend just
focusing on the customer first. Y
>> then we get into kind of like value
props, right? So, I wouldn't get
exhaustive here, but we have three
different sections that talk about
essentially the three big challenges
that we solve. Offer a better
presentation to your buyers. Outshine
the competition. Visibility. Eliminate
the proposal black hole. And three, send
proposals in minutes, not hours through
automated workflows. So for you, it
might be other things, but this is a
really great chance to reinforce your
positioning. How do you stand out from
your competition? Because that's the
thing about proposals. You're they're
almost always never in isolation. you're
almost always being compared to a couple
of your other competitors and this is
your chance to stand out from from them
and you know outshine them.
>> Any tips for for those kind of elements?
Like if you're not watching the proposal
Kyle's going through has got some nice
visuals, gifts almost kind of showing
the aha moment of the product kind of
clicking into play and how it works. Are
there any kind of frameworks that you
recommend, Kyle, for kind of making sure
you're actually, I guess, putting your
best foot forward. So, you're keeping
within this seven to eight pages like
you said at the start as an intro. It's
showing you understood of their
problems, goals, objectives from the
discovery call, then kind of showing the
proof points now, showing specifically
how your product can help or your
service can help and why you any kind of
frameworks that folks should consider I
guess when we get to that part. I mean,
so this is this is probably much more of
a strategic
>> play than something purely for
proposals, but yeah, I think that
there's still a lot of companies out
there. I would I would almost say most
companies do not have positioning. Most
of them don't even know what positioning
is. And if you don't know what it is,
then it's not going to be reflected in
your proposal. So, I would encourage
every company to look at say like follow
April Dunford. A lot of her stuff is
very focused on SAS companies, but a lot
of it is extremely applicable to almost
every type of business out there. And
like her book, Obviously, awesome, and
her her frameworks for finding your
positioning. Basically, how do we stand
out from alternative solutions in the
mind of our target audience? Get those
things in place and make sure that they
are reinforced by your proposal. And we
could probably do a whole episode on
positioning, but curious to get your
thoughts on that.
>> Oh, yeah. Like you said, it goes way
beyond a conversation of this, doesn't
it? way way beyond proposals. I mean,
it's it's basically your company. It's
understanding why prospects choose you
over your competitors. Knowing who your
competitors are, and then like most good
B2B marketing, kind of interviewing the
right type of prospects, like the
recently won clients, the recently
churned ones, and understanding those
those trigger moments of of kind of why
they chose you, why they almost didn't,
what they feel about your competitors,
what they hate most about your industry,
all that all that kind of stuff that
kind of builds the recipe for your
position in the marketplace. and also
what you stand against.
>> Yes, stand against is very important.
And I and I don't I don't want to put
you on the spot, but I think you know
this would be a really helpful exercise
is like if if I'm talking to Sam Dunning
breaking B2B and obviously SEO is a
competitive field like almost every
industry is competitive. What are what
are the things where you you know
essentially somebody who's looking to
buy SEO services goes okay well I
obviously want more search traffic. I
want better search traffic. I I think I
already know the answer cuz I've seen
your marketing. But I'm just curious,
how would you sort of say like, "Oh,
this is what we believe at Breaking B2B.
This is how we differ from maybe some of
the other SEO agencies."
>> Oh yeah. Nothing I do is complex. Most
of the stuff I like yourself. I either
read it or learn it, listen to folks
smarter than me like B2B marketers,
founders, and then just apply it. So in
this case, loads of B2B marketers were
coming to us saying like their SEO teams
were delivering loads and loads of
traffic, but none of it was converting
to pipeline like leads, demos, booked
calls, signups. All I did was kind of
come up with a few strap lines that were
relevant to that. I think 20 months ago
when I started breaking B2B, put a poll
on LinkedIn and the one that got the
most traction I went with and that was
for us BB SEO for revenue not vanity.
That's kind of what we stand against. We
stand against kind of traffic at all
costs. We'd rather deliver less traffic
and drive more pipeline. Um, and that's
kind of why we've doubled down on the
like 90 days to pipeline motto that we
often put in our content videos,
LinkedIn posts. And that was just
getting info from sales calls really cuz
I was running those and getting real
feedback from the market on what they
didn't like and then leveraging that in
our messaging.
>> That's that's brilliant and I love that
the 90 days to pipeline is such a great
such a great hook and it's something
that you don't hear from a lot of I
don't generally hear that from SEO
agencies. So, it is a really great
position to take. So that's a great
example. Like that's those are the types
of things and statements that you want
reinforced throughout your proposal. And
then you know I think case studies are
extremely powerful. Most people might
have them on their website but very good
to include at least one strong case
study in your proposal. Ideally one that
is reflective of who you're selling to.
Because this is the great thing about a
proposal, right? is this is a
personalized document to a specific
buyer where most of your marketing is
trying to speak to the right person, but
it's essentially going to get a thousand
eyeballs on it. So, you have to make
sure that you're you're clear about who
you're speaking to. But a proposal is
basically you speaking to one individual
buyer. And so, this is where you can get
really personal with it and say like,
okay, if I'm selling to a landscaping
firm, then I'm going to include one of
my landscaping templates or uh case
studies. So very important to make sure
that people can see themsel using your
service or product by being like, "Okay,
that company is a lot like us." So I'm
just going to take a quick aside here
for anybody who hasn't heard of the
value equation. I've been kind of
harping about this a lot lately. I
learned it from Alex Herozi. I don't
think he
>> I was going to say, is that Hermosis?
>> Hermosis. Yeah. I don't know if he
invented it. I don't think he did, but
it is really really helpful framework to
think about how you communicate value.
So the idea is that like when people
say, "Oh, well lead with value,
reinforce." Okay, that's fine. What is
value? What does that actually mean? And
he has it broken down into like four
things, quadrant, if you will. It's like
there's a dream outcome times a
perceived likelihood of achievement
divided by time, delay, effort, and
sacrifice. So, let me break that down.
It's like somebody wants to buy your
service because they want some outcome
that they don't have today. I want more
traffic and more leads and better leads.
Now, if they don't believe they can get
that from you, then there's essentially
no value. That's why when people reach
out sales reps and say, "Hey, we would
love to 10x your lead volume over the
next 90 days. Are you able to take more
revenue on?" They say all those silly
things. You're like, "Yeah, of course I
am. I don't believe you can do it,
though." Right? So, if you don't believe
somebody can get you the results,
there's no value in it. So, part of your
job as a seller, I'd say I'd almost
argue this is the biggest job you have
as a seller is to really convince the
buyer that you really can do this for
them because it will automatically
increase the value, which means they're
willing to pay more for it. Like if you
guaranteed me that I'm going to 10x my
my revenue and you can say like I've
done it for 100 people just like you.
This is how we do it. Then I'm going to
actually believe you can do it. Then I'm
going to be like cool. Here's my money.
Take it. But this gets divided by the
time delay and the efforts to sacrifice.
So time delay is a really great SEO
example to use because the obviously the
hardest thing about SEO compared to say
maybe like hiring a paid media expert is
that I can spend your money and get you
leads within a month. Whereas SEO, we
know that even when done well, there's a
little bit of a delay. I mean, those are
just constraints we have to work within
as business owners. But either way, I
would be willing to pay more for
something if I could get instant results
versus taking a year. So though, and
then obviously, how much work am I going
to have to do, right? It's like if I
have to show up to the gym and do the
exercise and and you know, eat right and
it's not just a magic pill that I can
take, then yeah, it's not going to be as
valuable as something where like you're
going to do all the work for me. So, I
just wanted to go through that framework
because it's a really helpful way to
frame every line of communication in
your proposal should be reinforcing
either the dream outcome, convincing
that we can do it, but also making clear
how long is it going to take to get
these results and how much work are you
going to have to do? And if you can
minimize those on the bottom and
maximize the ones on the top, then it's
going to be a valuable offer.
>> Yeah, great breakdown. I think it's like
reducing risk as much as possible as
well, right? and like showing like the
status quo is going to cause you harm
almost if you stay put. This is what's
going to happen. Here's why us. Here's
how we're going to do it. Here's what
happens if you stay as you are. Here's
the expected outcome. And here's
undeniable evidence that we've delivered
this for x amount of prospects exactly
like you. Really good example like when
I started breaking B2B, someone gave me
that advice. So, literally as soon as I
could, I got a video case study with as
many clients as possible just so we
could have like even though we were 3 4
months old, like undeniable evidence on
our case study page. I think that's
that's a really really good point.
>> Yeah. And using social proof in the
right way I think can go a long ways. I
think people are naturally skeptical
when they see testimonials. So anything
that you can do to make those stories
more believable say by having like
little video clips of Zoom calls where
the customer's like, "Oh my god, like
this changed my life or I got this
result." Like anything you could do to
make it believable will will be valuable
effort to making sure that perceived
likelihood of achievement is high. And
time delay. I just want to touch on that
one more time because I think it's so
important is this is where suddenly your
offer can be made or broken by how long
is the upfront piece going to take
because I'll give you two examples. One
is in software there's always an
onboarding process and if you know for
example very complex enterprise tools
that it's going to take a year to get
this off the ground it it makes you not
want to buy it as much as something
where you go okay we could be up and
running in 2 weeks. Same thing with an
agency. I've I've hired a lot of
agencies over the the the course of my
career. There's one thing that rubs me
the wrong way and I know why agencies do
it, but it still as a buyer bums me out
and sometimes I just don't proceed is
when you feel like you know the service
you want. You just want them like, "Hey,
we've got everything together. We've got
all of our strategy documents and
positioning. We'll give it all to you,
but we want to like start executing on
day one." And they say, "Oh, no. Our
process is we have a a strategy upfront
strategy and it's 20K and it's going to
take 6 weeks and we can't start any work
until we do the strategy piece." as a
buyer, you're just like, "No, we're just
not we're just not doing it." Because
it's like, "We are not a mom and pop
shop that doesn't have like strategy
figured out, and that's not why we're
hiring you. We're hiring you to like
drive our SEO, drive our YouTube, drive
our LinkedIn, or whatever it happens to
be."
>> Time to value is a big one. I think it's
something that can be improved. Like I
like the fact that this is going like
we're talking about proposal best
practices but we're also talking about
kind of frameworks that just make sense
for companies that want to up their B2B
marketing like time to value something
that I think every business can always
look to improve. That's something I'm
constantly thinking about from our
agency like how can we like you say give
a better experience in the on boarding
execute quicker so they can start seeing
impact from our work and like you say if
you can work out ways to clearly show
evidence of that and explain that in a
really simple to understand and instant
to grasp way in in your proposals and
and the rest of your marketing
collateral that's pretty important.
>> Absolutely. And I mean you know one
thing we haven't talked about is pricing
because that's ultimately one of the
most critical pieces of your proposal.
That's what people are always wanting to
go like, you know, when they see that
>> everyone skips to it. We know that and
just accept it. But it's like how you
present your pricing in your proposal
matters. Um whether or not you make
certain things optional, whether you let
the user customize or the prospect
customize the pricing is really
important. We had a we have a customer
who we hired. Um I always love it when
you know when I end up finding a
customer of ours can also help us solve
one of our own internal challenges and
being able to hire them. So, we we hired
an agency out of uh Calgary, Vero Video.
We'll just give them a little shout out.
They're a YouTube agency, right? So,
they kind of help you with your editing
and your content strategy and how you
your thumbnails, like basically just
help you get more more views on YouTube.
And what I loved about how they
presented pricing to us, they of course
use Proposify to do it, was they made
everything alakart. So unlike the first
agency who actually I looked at hiring a
content agency about a year prior and
they had the big expensive upfront
strategy and we're like we we have a
strategy like we don't want to hire.
It's like nope it's it's not optional
you have to take it. They were
completely different this this agency
Vero because basically you know there's
a ton of different YouTube services
thumbnail creation optimizing your your
actual profile page helping you with
editing helping you with topic ideation
and they presented it in a really
beautiful way but everything was just a
checkbox and so we as buyers could go
like okay we definitely want that no we
don't want that we can do that ourselves
>> and it just was so flex it was very
buyer friendly and I think that's a
world we're moving more towards of
giving the buyer more choice especially
when it comes to pricing.
>> In terms of presenting pricing, like we
pretty much always do three tiers and a
a bit like if you're watching on the
screen now, you can see team plan,
business plan in brackets recommended
and then Salesforce integration add-on
and I think there's something underneath
>> like the onboarding service.
>> Ah, gotcha. We normally do three tiers
and then we have the middle tier of kind
of where we want folks to go. I guess
there's a little bit of psychology
behind it. Like most people think like
we won't go on the starter tier, we go
on the middle cuz that's like where most
companies are at. Like the high tier
might be if they want to go a bit more
aggressive like almost like an anchored
option. What What are your thoughts
there?
>> Yeah, I mean pricing is a super deep
topic
>> for sure.
>> There's a lot of different pricing
models in SAS. The most popular one is
is typically good, better, best, which
obviously it sounds like you're using as
well in your agency. That's a very
triedand-true pricing model because
essentially if you only present one
option to your buyer, then it's a yes or
no decision. Whereas when you present
options, it's a, oh, I don't have
budget, so I'm actually going to take
the lower tier to keep the cost down.
Whereas other less costconcious buyers
might look at the biggest tier and say,
actually, we want more value from the
service, so we'll buy the the highest
tier. So it just gives that nice
optionality. And three is just a number
that we as humans connect with.
Everything is in threes. Stories are
told in threes, etc. So it it works,
right? Where people kind of go wrong
sometimes is they offer too many tiers
like five or six tiers where now it's
like I'm confused. I don't know what I
should be buying.
>> Yeah.
>> As they say, a confused mind doesn't
buy. So if your pricing is confusing,
that's going to hurt you. But then
sometimes it has to be because you might
not be able to put it into a simple
good, better, best model. It might be a
core plus more, which is like here's the
the the standard base package, but then
here's all the add-ons that you can add
to it. And that works too, right? As
long as they understand what those
add-ons are.
>> Oh, yeah. I mean, of course, it's going
to vary a lot depending on whether
you're selling enterprise software,
agency services, or something way way
way more simple. So, I appreciate
there's a lot of ways you can chop it
up. The mistake I made, so my first
business was an agency. We did like web
design and that kind of thing. We did a
little bit of SEO back in the back in
the old days when, you know, you could
just stuff keywords everywhere, you
know, hide them with CSS or whatever,
but no, we didn't do that. But yes, in
the old days of SEO, that was the agency
business that I first had. The mistake I
made in my proposals back then was I
thought that my customers wanted to see
a real breakdown of costs. Like I just
wasn't thinking about it like a business
person. I was thinking about it as a web
designer. So I was like, "Oh well, this
is the service for the design. This is
the service for the development. This is
the testing, the project management."
And it was so it I could have saved
myself so many headaches from talking to
to prospects if I had just put it under
one standard thing like this is how much
your website costs and maybe here's some
add-ons and functionality but like I'm
not going to break down what each
service is involved because ultimately
they just question well why is there so
much for testing like shouldn't it just
work immediately as soon as you build it
like now you have to explain it. So
there's getting one of the biggest
mistakes you may people make is getting
too granular with their pricing or just
offering one thing and if you can get
somewhere in the sweet spot where it
feels alakard it feels like they have
some control over it that's where you
want to be.
>> Yeah. Yeah. Nice examples. Okay. So
we've got pricing. Is there any more
elements to the proposal we need to wrap
up?
>> The final thing is really the contract
and signature. Now a lot of businesses
don't include all that in the upfront
proposal. So, they'll send a proposal
and then if they get like a verbal okay,
then they'll follow up with a contract.
What we like to do is we like to send
the proposal first to our buyer as early
as possible. In fact, we've rejigged our
demo process. So, we literally build
this on the call. It's a bit meta, but
we build your proposal on the call, the
initial demo that we have with you to
show you how we're using our own tool.
But after that, once they look at it and
they give us some feedback and they want
to move ahead, what we can do is we can
just pull from the content library and
find the contract and signature page and
we just add that as a section within the
proposal and drag some signatures on in
place. So that's kind of what we're
doing. Again, really depends on the
industry. Some industry norms might
dictate that you you don't include a
contract in your proposal. But we just
find a lot of our customers will say it
really streamlines things when you can
just send it all at once and now you
only need to get one yes from your buyer
instead of having to follow up with a
separate document.
>> Nice. I guess it comes back to that
speed element, right? Like making it as
easy as possible for that prospect to
take action.
>> It's like Amazon's one-click buying,
right? like they figured out a long time
ago that people will buy more if you
just let them buy in one click versus
have to say, "Okay, add it to my cart.
Now I'm going to go through my cart. Are
you sure? Are you really sure you want
to buy?" You're going to get more drop
off. So the less the less decisions you
have to give to your buyer, the higher
percentage will say yes.
>> Nice. Before everyone goes away and
starts crafting the best proposal of
their lives and closing more deals than
they can handle, anything else we need
to cover?
>> I don't think so. I mean, if people want
to check out our state of proposals,
they can just go to uh
proposify.com/sop.
I want to be sure that that is indeed
the URL. Yes, it is. So, uh
proposify.comsop,
go to our state of proposals and you can
find other stats. We have some industry
breakdowns as well. So, uh depending on
what kind of business you're running,
you might find some of those stats
helpful.
>> Awesome, man. Yeah, we'll certainly plug
that in the show notes and the link
below. And of course, if they want to
check your your site, they can head over
to proposify.com or follow Kyle on
LinkedIn for many useful insights around
sales leadership as well as of course
building proposals. And with that, I
want to thank you, Kyle, for your time
and enjoyed the conversation.
>> Yeah, same here Sam. Thanks for having
me.
>> Cheers, man. Speak soon. And there you
have it. I hope you enjoyed this
conversation between myself and Kyle.
Really breaking down proposals, but also
talking about some B2B marketing
fundamentals and best practices. And if
you haven't yet, why not join thousands
of B2B legends in joining the Breaking
B2B newsletter, where you'll instantly
unlock my 90 days to revenue SEO guide.
Head over to breakingb.com
and hit that newsletter tab. And with
that, I shall catch you on the next one.
Cheers.